she's a journalist but with no phone
internet or access to the
field an Israeli Court cut off Somaya
jaab from the outside world as part of
her conditioned release from an Israeli
jail if she communicates online or
speaks to us on camera she could be
rearrested Soma was in her seventh month
of pregnancy so we were worried about
her we thought at first she'd be allowed
to work from home but then we were
surprised to see the courts ruling all
of this for what accusing her of
incitement over a post on social media
she was allowed to give birth in a
hospital her baby is 3 months old now
but she has no idea when she'll be
allowed out and fears that her career
might be
over 43 Palestinian journalists from the
occupied West Bank are still in Israeli
jails almost half of them are held under
admin admin ministrative detention which
is arrest without
charges at least 260 cases so the
Israeli forces obstructing journalists
from reporting journalists clearly
identified as members of the press and
doing their jobs are protected under
international law but in Palestine media
workers say they're not and that the
protective gear known as The Press vests
that should keep them safe is turning
them into a Target
our families are often worried sick
about us Shireen bakley's killing was
shocking to all of us reporter Khaled
has been in the field for 15 years and
remembers when Israeli forces killed Al
jazer journalist 2 years ago while
reporting in
Janine in this video he's trying to
dodge bullets during an Israeli raid to
the occupied West
Bank you feel like when the are on the
Israeli forces are more cautious because
they fear an international backlash if
they managed to push journalists away
it's as if Israel has a green light to
commit more crimes against Palestinians
journalists often deploying groups as a
safety measure this is his colleague
Sami Samy was later arrested without a
charge well they're telling us that the
situation is dis when Israel blocked
International reporters from entering
the besieged Gaza Strip after their
attack started Palestinian journalists
say they Rose to the challenge they want
to tell the story they
say of War displacement and loss but
more often than not they are forced to
become part of it nid ibraim Al jazer
the occupied West Bank
Palestine make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz